Environment Docs & Deployment Recipes (#1713)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/cloud/execution/fargate_task_environment.md

[[toc]]

## Overview

The Fargate Task Environment runs a Flow on a completely custom [Fargate Task](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/AWS_Fargate.html). This Environment is intended for use in cases where users want complete control over the Fargate Task their Flow runs on.

_For more information on the Fargate Task Environment visit the relevant [API documentation](/api/unreleased/environments/execution.html#fargatetaskenvironment)._

## Process

#### Initialization

The `FargateTaskEnvironment` has two groups of keyword arguments: boto3-related arguments and task-related arguments. All of this configuration revolves around how the [boto3]() library communicates with AWS. The design of this Environment is meant to be open to all access methodologies for AWS instead of adhering to a single mode of authentication.

This Environment accepts similar arguments to how boto3 authenticates with AWS: `aws_access_key_id`, `aws_secret_access_key`, `aws_session_token`, and `region_name`. These arguments are directly passed to the [boto3 client]() which means you should initialize this Environment in that same way you would normally use boto3.

> After specifying credentials for the boto3 client the other group of kwargs falls into the category of any arguments you would pass into boto3 for [registering](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/ecs.html#ECS.Client.register_task_definition) a task definition and [running](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/ecs.html#ECS.Client.run_task) that task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other group of kwargs are those you would pass into boto3 for [registering](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/ecs.html#ECS.Client.register_task_definition) a task definition and [running](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/ecs.html#ECS.Client.run_task) that task.
```

```
family                      string
taskRoleArn                 string
executionRoleArn            string
networkMode                 string
containerDefinitions        list
volumes                     list
placementConstraints        list
requiresCompatibilities     list
cpu                         string
memory                      string
tags                        list
pidMode                     string
ipcMode                     string
proxyConfiguration          dict
inferenceAccelerators       list
```

Accepted kwargs for [`run_task`](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/ecs.html#ECS.Client.run_task):

```
cluster                     string
taskDefinition              string
count                       integer
startedBy                   string
group                       string
placementConstraints        list
placementStrategy           list
platformVersion             string
networkConfiguration        dict
tags                        list
enableECSManagedTags        boolean
propagateTags               string
```

> All of these kwargs will be loaded and stored upon initialization of the Environment. It will never be sent to Prefect Cloud and will only exist inside your Flow's Docker storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these kwargs will be loaded and stored upon initialization of the Environment. It will _never be sent to Prefect Cloud_ and will only exist inside your Flow's Docker storage object.
```

:::tip Task IAM Roles
Users have seen great performance in using [Task IAM Roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/task-iam-roles.html) for their Flow execution.
:::

#### Setup

The Fargate Task Environment setup step is responsible for registering the Fargate Task if it does not already exist. First it checks for the existence of a task definition based on the `family` that was provided at initialization of this Environment. If the task definition is not found then it is created. This means that if a Flow is run multiple times the task definition will only need to be created once.

#### Execute

> Create a new Fargate Task with the configuration provided at initialization of this Environment. That task is responsible for running the Flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new Fargate Task with the configuration provided at initialization of this Environment. That task is responsible for running your flow.
```

This shouldn't be capitalized since it's talking about a specific user flow, right?

#### Task Spec Configuration

> There are a few caveats to using the Fargate Task Environment that revolve around the provided boto3 kwargs. In the `containerDefinitions` that you provide the **first container** listed will be the container that is used to run the Flow. This means that the first container will always be overridden during the `setup` step of this Environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few caveats to using the Fargate Task Environment that revolve around the provided boto3 kwargs. In the `containerDefinitions` that you provide, the **first container** listed will be the container that is used to run the Flow. This means that the first container will always be overridden during the `setup` step of this Environment.
```

Potentially I'm not understanding this, but the first container listed will be the one used to run the Flow but the first container will always be overridden? Those feel like opposing statements

```python
containerDefinitions=[
    {
        "name": "flow",
        "image": "image",
        "command": [],
        "environment": [],
        "essential": True,
    }
],
```

> In the above dictionary the `flow` container will have a few aspects changed during setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The container dictionary above will be changed during setup:
```

- `name` will become _flow-container_
- `image` will become the _registry_url/image_name:image_tag_ of your Flow's storage
- `command` will take the form of:

```python
[
    "/bin/sh",
    "-c",
    "python -c 'from prefect.environments import FargateTaskEnvironment; FargateTaskEnvironment().run_flow()'",
]
```

- `environment` will have some extra variables automatically appended to it for Cloud-based Flow runs:

```
PREFECT__CLOUD__GRAPHQL
PREFECT__CLOUD__USE_LOCAL_SECRETS
PREFECT__ENGINE__FLOW_RUNNER__DEFAULT_CLASS
PREFECT__ENGINE__TASK_RUNNER__DEFAULT_CLASS
PREFECT__LOGGING__LOG_TO_CLOUD
```

> All other aspects of your `containerDefinitions` will remain untouched. In some cases it is easiest to simply use a dummy first container similar to the code block above.

Reviewer: Could we highlight some cases where it might be easier or specify why a "dummy" container would be preferable?

During the execute step of your Environment the following container overrides will be set for boto3's `run_task`:

```
PREFECT__CLOUD__AUTH_TOKEN
PREFECT__CONTEXT__FLOW_RUN_ID
PREFECT__CONTEXT__IMAGE
PREFECT__CONTEXT__FLOW_FILE_PATH
```

## Examples

#### Fargate Task Environment w/ Resources

> The following example will execute your Flow using the Fargate Task Environment with the provided Task specification—taking advantage of resource requests. This example also makes use of an `aws_session_token` and [IAM Role for task execution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/task-iam-roles.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example will execute your Flow using the Fargate Task Environment with the provided Task specification taking advantage of resource requests. This example also makes use of an `aws_session_token` and [IAM Role for task execution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/task-iam-roles.html).
```
